[quote]What colour do you see when looking at GREEN ?
This is a very clear and simple experience. Just LOOKING and SEEING a colour. That is all.
All the rest is just thinking about the experience.
We are not interested in that.[/quote]

I see images. We can use labels like 'red' or 'green', but they are just labels. That is my actual experience.


[quote]Is 'green' associated in any way with the experience of the colour red?
Why not ' I SEE no association'?
Do you SEE the difference?[/quote]

Yes, I see. I cannot SEE association. Association does not exist outside of the mind.
As I write this, I feel a tugging sensation in my chest. I find myself wondering if it is resistance. There is something resisted about this idea that association does not exist outside the mind.
Once again, it is that excitement/fear sensation that arises. It has a sense of being 'upwards', as if it was to lift me out of the chair. I see also that these images are not able to lift me anywhere.

[quote]Now, can you physically grasp that image of a cup? Can you pour tea into it?
Can you drink from it?
Is there a ‘real’ cup or just an image of a cup?
Is there an appearing mental image?
Is the content of the mental image (the cup) ‘real’?[/quote]

It is just an image of the cup. The image itself, the experiencing of it, is real, but the content is not.


[quote]Over the course of the next day or so, I'd like you to notice the content of thoughts. Whenever there is an arising thought or mental image, check whether its content (what it’s about) is really happening, or the content is just pure imagination. Let me know how it goes.[/quote]

Noticing thoughts about completing this exercise; they are not real, they are just thoughts. I can feel the hands moving, touching the keyboard. At first, the thoughts about this activity had the content of 'being the same thing' as the activity itself, but I can SEE they are two things. There is the life of the mind, there is the life of the hands and everything else.

I am sat here at the screen, looking. Many thoughts of self come up, but I can find nothing that is not a mental image or word.
Which means I cannot be real. Not in any way that isn't in absolute contact with NOW.
Thoughts go "but, but, BUT", but whatever the but, there is no but.


[quote]Is 'initiated' a Direct Experience?
Or a thought or label, an image?
Does it exist at all?
Can you SEE it or SENSE it?
Or total fantasy?
What does exist is LOOKING, NOTICING, SEEING.[/quote]

I can sense when another being is in direct realisation of their being. They hold themselves differently, speak differently, feel different.
But everything else is a label, an image, a cluster of images and words that fire in rapid succession.
